Update upgrade-tidb-using-tiup.md (#2681)
pingcap/docs: upgrade-tidb-using-tiup.md

    - `Lightning` / `Importer` is enabled for the cluster.
    - You still use the `'push'` method to collect monitoring metrics (since v3.0, `pull` is the default mode, which is supported if you have not modified this mode).
    - In the `inventory.ini` configuration file, the `node_exporter` or `blackbox_exporter` item of the machine is set to non-default ports through `node_exporter_port` or `blackbox_exporter_port`, which is compatible if you have unified the configuration in the `group_vars` directory.
- Support upgrading the versions of TiDB Binlog, TiCDC, TiFlash, and other components.

> - Before you upgrade from v2.0.6 or earlier to v4.0.0 or later, you have to make sure that no DDL operations are running in the cluster, especially the `Add Index` operation that is time-consuming. Perform the upgrade after all DDL operations are completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Before you upgrade from v2.0.6 or earlier to v4.0.0 or later, you must make sure that no DDL operations are running in the cluster, especially the `Add Index` operation that is time-consuming. Perform the upgrade after all DDL operations are completed.
```

> - Before you upgrade from v2.0.6 or an earlier version to 4.0.0, you have to make sure that no DDL operations are running in the cluster, especially the `Add Index` operation that is time-consuming. Perform the upgrade after all DDL operations are completed.

Author: ```suggestion
- Before you upgrade from v2.0.6 or earlier to v4.0.0 or later, you have to make sure that no DDL operations are running in the cluster, especially the `Add Index` operation that is time-consuming. Perform the upgrade after all DDL operations are completed.
```

> - Starting from v2.1, TiDB enables parallel DDL. Therefore, clusters **older than v2.0.1** cannot be rolling upgraded to version 4.0.0. Instead, you can choose the following solutions:

Author: ```suggestion
- Starting from v2.1, TiDB enables parallel DDL. Therefore, clusters **older than v2.0.1** cannot be rolling upgraded to v4.0.0 or later. Instead, you can choose the following solutions:
```

> - Starting from v2.1, TiDB enables parallel DDL. Therefore, clusters **older than v2.0.1** cannot be rolling upgraded to v4.0.0 or later. Instead, you can choose the following solutions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Starting from v2.1, TiDB enables parallel DDL. Therefore, clusters **older than v2.0.1** cannot be upgraded to v4.0.0 or later via a direct rolling update. Instead, you can choose one of the following solutions:
```

>     - Upgrade directly from TiDB v2.0.1 or earlier to 4.0.0 in planned downtime

Author: ```suggestion
    - Upgrade directly from TiDB v2.0.1 or earlier to v4.0.0  or later in planned downtime
```

>     - Rolling upgrade to v2.0.1 or a later 2.0 version, then rolling upgrade to v4.0.0

Author: ```suggestion
    - Rolling upgrade to v2.0.1 or a later 2.0 version, then rolling upgrade to v4.0.0 or later
```

>     - Rolling upgrade to v2.0.1 or a later 2.0 version, then rolling upgrade to v4.0.0 or later

Reviewer: It seems that "rolling upgrade" or "rolling update" is seldom used as a verb phrase. Generally, we would say "perform a rolling upgrade" or "apply a rolling upgrade to".
```suggestion
    - Perform a rolling upgrade to upgrade the current version to v2.0.1 or a later 2.0 version, then perform another rolling upgrade to upgrade to v4.0.0 or later
```

Author: "Perform a rolling upgrade from * to *" is more concise and widely used: [ref](https://www.google.com/search?newwindow=1&hl=zh-CN&sxsrf=ALeKk01ER6KaLkjcQmZ_cBvRfHcCSdaf7Q%3A1591599050032&ei=yt_dXsXEAcvc-gTokZ-QAg&q=%22rolling+upgrade+from+*+to+*%22&oq=%22rolling+upgrade+from+*+to+*%22&gs_lcp=CgZwc3ktYWIQAzIGCAAQCBAeOgQIABAeOgYIABAFEB5QiOsBWIiGAmDKhwJoAHAAeAGAAa4CiAG4DZIBBTItNi4xmAEAoAEBqgEHZ3dzLXdpeg&sclient=psy-ab&ved=0ahUKEwjF0YHA0PHpAhVLrp4KHejIByIQ4dUDCAw&uact=5)

> **Note:**
>

> > Do not execute any DDL request during the upgrade, or an undefined behavior issue might occur.

Reviewer: `or` has multiple meanings.
```suggestion
> Do not execute any DDL request during the upgrade, otherwise an undefined behavior issue might occur.
```

If you have installed TiUP before, execute the following command to update TiUP to the latest version:

> **Note:**
>

> > If the result of `tiup --version` shows that your TiUP version is below v1.0.0, run `tiup update --self` first to update the TiUP version before running the following command.

Reviewer: To keep the expression consistent.
```suggestion
> If the result of `tiup --version` shows that your TiUP version is earlier than v1.0.0, run `tiup update --self` first to update the TiUP version before running the following command.
```

>
> Before upgrading to v4.0, confirm that the parameters modified in v3.0 are compatible in v4.0. See [configuration template](/tikv-configuration-file.md) for details.

## Perform a rolling upgrade to the TiDB cluster

This section describes how to perform a rolling upgrade to the TiDB cluster and how to verify the version after the upgrade.

> ### Rolling upgrade the TiDB cluster to a specified version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upgrade the TiDB cluster to a specified version
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup cluster upgrade <cluster-name> <version>
```

> For example, if you want to update the cluster to v4.0.0:

Reviewer: To keep wording consistent.
```suggestion
For example, if you want to upgrade the cluster to v4.0.0:
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup cluster upgrade <cluster-name> v4.0.0
```

> Performing the rolling upgrade to the cluster will upgrade all components one by one. During the upgrade of TiKV, all leaders in a TiKV instance are evicted before stopping the instance. The default timeout time is 5 minutes. The instance is directly stopped after this timeout time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performing a rolling upgrade to the cluster will upgrade all components one by one. During the upgrade of TiKV, all leaders in a TiKV instance are evicted before stopping the instance. The default timeout time is 5 minutes. The instance is directly stopped after this timeout time.
```

### The evict leader has waited too long during the upgrade. How to skip this step for a quick upgrade?

You can specify `--force`. Then the processes of transferring PD leader and evicting TiKV leader are skipped during the upgrade. The cluster is directly restarted to update the version, which has a great impact on the cluster that runs online. Here is the command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup cluster upgrade <cluster-name> v4.0.0 --force
```

### How to update the version of tools such as pd-ctl after upgrading the TiDB cluster?

Currently, TiUP does not update and manage the version of tools. If you need the tool package of the latest version, directly download the TiDB package and replace `{version}` with the corresponding version such as `v4.0.0`. Here is the download address:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```
https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

### Failure to upgrade the TiFlash component during the cluster upgrade

> Before v4.0.0-rc.2, TiFlash might have some incompatibility issues. This might cause problems when you upgrade a cluster that includes the TiFlash component to v4.0.0-rc.2 or a later version. If so, go to [ASK TUG](https://asktug.com/) and ask for R&D support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before v4.0.0-rc.2, TiFlash might have some incompatibility issues. This might cause problems when you upgrade a cluster that includes the TiFlash component to v4.0.0-rc.2 or a later version. If so, [contact the R&D support](mailto:support@pingcap.com).
```

## TiDB 4.0 compatibility changes

- If you set the value of the `oom-action` parameter to `cancel`, when the query statement triggers the OOM threshold, the statement is killed. In v4.0, in addition to `select`, DML statements such as `insert`/`update`/`delete` might also be killed.
- TiDB v4.0 supports the length check for table names. The length limit is 64 characters. If you rename a table after the upgrade and the new name exceeds this length limit, an error is reported. v3.0 and earlier versions do not have this error reporting.
- TiDB v4.0 supports the length check for partition names of the partitioned tables. The length limit is 64 characters. After the upgrade, if you create or alter a partitioned table with a partition name that exceeds the length limit, an error is expected to occur in 4.0 versions, but not in 3.0 and earlier versions.
- In v4.0, the format of the `explain` execution plan is improved. Pay attention to any automatic analysis program that is customized for `explain`.

> - TiDB v4.0 supports [read committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level). After upgrading to v4.0, setting the isolation level to `READ-COMMITTED` in a pessimistic transaction takes effect. (Not valid in 3.0 and earlier versions)

Author: ```suggestion
- TiDB v4.0 supports [read committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level). After upgrading to v4.0, setting the isolation level to `READ-COMMITTED` in a pessimistic transaction takes effect. In 3.0 and earlier versions, the setting is not valid.
```

> - TiDB v4.0 supports [read committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level). After upgrading to v4.0, setting the isolation level to `READ-COMMITTED` in a pessimistic transaction takes effect. In 3.0 and earlier versions, the setting is not valid.

Author: ```suggestion
- TiDB v4.0 supports [read committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level). After upgrading to v4.0, setting the isolation level to `READ-COMMITTED` in a pessimistic transaction takes effect. In 3.0 and earlier versions, the setting does not take effect.
```

> - TiDB v4.0 supports [read committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level). After upgrading to v4.0, setting the isolation level to `READ-COMMITTED` in a pessimistic transaction takes effect. In 3.0 and earlier versions, the setting does not take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB v4.0 supports [Read Committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level). After upgrading to v4.0, setting the isolation level to `READ-COMMITTED` in a pessimistic transaction takes effect. In 3.0 and earlier versions, the setting does not take effect.
```
